Our Solar System

We live in a beautiful solar system in the milky way galaxy comprised of eight planets. <br /> Click the links above to learn about some of them.

Earth is the home to humanity and more than likely, the planet you're reading this from right now.

The Earth is unlike every other planet in the Solar System in a number of different ways.

Earth is home to the only currently known life in the entire universe.  It's home to an extremely wide variety of life, from microscopic life, to bug, to mammals, and more!

Earth is special in that is has retained a large body of water for so long!  Most planets water freezes or evaporates.  Much of this is thanks to our unique location relative to the sun in our solar system.

Jupiter is the fifth planet from the Sun and the largest in the Solar System. It is a giant planet with a mass one-thousandth that of the Sun, but two-and-a-half times that of all other planets in the Solar System combined.

In total, Jupiter has 53 named moons.  Here are some of the interesting ones:

Beneath the icy surface of Jupiter’s moon Europa is perhaps the most promising place to look for present-day environments suitable for life.

Slightly smaller than Earth's Moon, Europa’s water-ice surface is crisscrossed by long, linear fractures. Like our planet, Europa is thought to have an iron core, a rocky mantle and an ocean of salty water. Unlike Earth, however, Europa’s ocean lies below a shell of ice probably 10 to 15 miles (15 to 25 kilometers) thick and has an estimated depth of 40 to 100 miles (60 to 150 kilometers).

Europa is named for a woman abducted by the god Zeus in Greek mythology–Jupiter to the Romans.

Callisto is the third largest moon in our solar system and is almost the size of Mercury. It is the outermost of the four large Galilean satellites. Callisto is the most heavily cratered object in our solar system. It is thought to be a long-dead world, with hardly any geologic activity on its surface — with a surface age of about 4 billion years, Callisto has the oldest landscape in the solar system. Like Ganymede and Europa, Callisto also shows strong evidence of an ocean deep under its icy surface.

Callisto is named for a woman turned into a bear by Zeus in Greek mythology – Jupiter to the Romans

Ganymede is the largest moon in our solar system and the only moon with its own magnetic field. The magnetic field causes auroras, which are ribbons of glowing, electrified gas, in regions circling the moon’s north and south poles. Ganymede has large, bright regions of ridges and grooves that slice across older, darker terrains. These grooved regions are a clue that the moon experienced dramatic upheavals in the distant past. Scientists have also found strong evidence of an underground ocean on Ganymede.

Ganymede is named for a boy who was made cupbearer for the ancient Greek gods by Zeus – Jupiter to the Romans

Jupiter's moon Io is the most volcanically active world in the Solar System, with hundreds of volcanoes, some erupting lava fountains dozens of miles (or kilometers) high. Io is caught in a tug-of-war between Jupiter's massive gravity and the smaller but precisely timed pulls from two neighboring moons that orbit farther from Jupiter—Europa and Ganymede.

Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun and the second-smallest planet in the Solar System after Mercury. In English, Mars carries a name of the Roman god of war, and is often referred to as the "Red Planet" because the reddish iron oxide prevalent on its surface gives it a reddish appearance that is distinctive among the astronomical bodies visible to the naked eye. Mars is a terrestrial planet with a thin atmosphere, having surface features reminiscent both of the impact craters of the Moon and the valleys, deserts, and polar ice caps of Earth.

We've sent various Rovers to Mars, open some of the panels below to learn about some of the interesting missions:

Spirit, also known as MER-A (Mars Exploration Rover – A) or MER-2, is a robotic rover on Mars, active from 2004 to 2010.It was one of two rovers of NASA's ongoing Mars Exploration Rover Mission. It landed successfully on Mars at 04:35 Ground UTC on January 4, 2004, three weeks before its twin, Opportunity (MER-B), landed on the other side of the planet. Its name was chosen through a NASA-sponsored student essay competition. The rover became stuck in late 2009, and its last communication with Earth was sent on March 22, 2010.

Opportunity, also known as MER-B (Mars Exploration Rover – B) or MER-1, is a robotic rover active on Mars since 2004. Launched on July 7, 2003 as part of NASA's Mars Exploration Rover program, it landed in Meridiani Planum on January 25, 2004, three weeks after its twin Spirit (MER-A) touched down on the other side of the planet.With a planned 90 sol duration of activity (slightly more than 90 earth days), Spirit functioned until getting stuck in 2009 and ceased communications in 2010, while Opportunity remains active as of May 30, 2018, having exceeded its operating plan by 14 years, 34 days (in Earth time). Opportunity has continued to move, make scientific observations, and report back to Earth for over 55 times its designed lifespan. As of January 23, 2018, the rover had traveled 45.09 kilometers (28.02 miles).

Phoenix was a robotic spacecraft on a space exploration mission on Mars under the Mars Scout Program. The Phoenix lander descended on Mars on May 25, 2008.  Mission scientists used instruments aboard the lander to search for environments suitable for microbial life on Mars, and to research the history of water there. The total mission cost was about US $386 million, which includes cost of the launch.

Curiosity is a car-sized rover designed to explore Gale Crater on Mars as part of NASA's Mars Science Laboratory mission (MSL). Curiosity was launched from Cape Canaveral on November 26, 2011, at 15:02 UTC aboard the MSL spacecraft and landed on Aeolis Palus in Gale Crater on Mars on August 6, 2012, 05:17 UTC. The Bradbury Landing site was less than 2.4 km (1.5 mi) from the center of the rover's touchdown target after a 560 million km (350 million mi) journey. The rover's goals include an investigation of the Martian climate and geology; assessment of whether the selected field site inside Gale Crater has ever offered environmental conditions favorable for microbial life, including investigation of the role of water; and planetary habitability studies in preparation for human exploration.